# Testing-QA

Writing software can be a mixture of since and creativity. Both parts still involve methodological processes. From analyzing stakeholder needs to mapping out a logical architecture of an application, testing and automation can be advantageous. Before jumping into writing code, it is important to form a solid understanding as to what the application will accomplish. Stakeholder vision can be broken down into pieces and formed as a requirements document.

The requirements document can outline needs and wants, along with any restrictions or constraints the application is subjected to. Once I know what needs to be done, I write comments of each functionality and its constraints before writing actual code. These comments can be rearranged into a logical order. At this point unit test cases can be written before writing source code or after. Deciding the order can be dependent on the scenario. Either way, test cases should be written at regular intervals and tests performed frequently. 

Unit testing can greatly increase the chances of success of a project and reduce risks of defects. At all stages of software development, unit tests should be written by the developer, even if a dedicated testing team is going to perform additional evaluation. Holding oneself to high standards of quality will ultimately increase code quality, have a more positive impact to the project, and benefit the development team immensely.

Five documents are housed in this repository as a demonstration of the use object oriented programming unit test methods. The Contact class is a custom object designed to create the structure for contacts stored in a mobile phone. The Contact Test class evaluates the effectiveness of this object's specific constraints given storage limitations. The Contact Service class establishes a rudimentary data structure, operating limitations, and provides CRUD operations to be performed on a contact list. The ContactService class contains unit tests to confirm each operation can be performed effectively.
